hi welcome everyone and it's the ipfs
weekly cool for Monday the 9th of
September 2019 I am making brain I will
be your host today we're gonna have a
talk from Dirk on the bitts walk
protocol and upcoming improvements there
and I've just added the notes to the
chat so if there's anything else you'd
like to cover today stick in the agenda
if I could have a note-taker please good
news or name's actually in the notes
already isn't it thicker because I just
copy and pasted it from last week's they
save you some typing I'll write it right
does anyone have anything to add to the
agenda or shall we skip straight on to
the good stuff
no it's hairy yeah yeah so in case
anyone is on the Scott who hasn't heard
this skill before um offline camp got
rescheduled it's coming up September
27th to 30th in Oregon I'm the West
Leslie and I be safe so if anyone is
interested in the offline first movement
or how the connection between the web
and making apps work offline and then
low bandwidth use cases Molly and I will
be there looking around the screen to
see who else on here and number of other
folks from that fast community and
people I feel will be there right
Michael Byrne my Oh Michael burns
yes oh yes I can see his fiery axe guy
yeah so a few of us will be there and
we'd love to have more company we still
have a few tickets left and there are
scholarships left so I will paste the
link in the chat and then over in
minutes as well
cool anyone else nope take it away dad
alrighty
you guys see my screen can see your face
[Music]
no yes cool alright so for people who
don't know me my name is Duke I'm like a
protocol labs um and today I'm gonna be
talking about bit swap so I get my
pointer here so bit swap is the way that
I PFS get stuff from the network so
either it'll ask for it's four blocks
from its local block store or if we
can't find there it'll go a nice bit
swapping bit swap or go out to the
network so just a bit of background when
I PFS ask for stuff from bit swap it
typically does it in a couple of main
ways so one way is that it requests a
whole file full of stuff so typically
it'll requests the route block route
block contains links to child nodes and
then those child nodes contain links to
further the child nodes so the request
pattern will be asked for one block ask
for a few blocks and then ask them any
one of us the other main way that it
requests blocks is by asking for a path
so for example when it's requesting a
page on a website it'll ask for the
routes and it'll check the links to find
page and once it's found page it'll
check the links to find doctor HTML and
then it'll fetch all the blocks in that
document so there Chris Patten here is
request one block request one block
request born block requests many blocks
so
where we have a pretty high fan-out so
like in Wikipedia or for a web page
typically there'll be a few nodes in the
network that have all of the information
like the servers that are serving it
originally and then there'll be many
nodes that have parts of the tree so
when it uses browsing through it they'll
download different bits for different
documents within the website so there's
this kind of visualization on the right
where you can see three different peers
which each have different parts of the
tree so how do we find stuff so a bit
swap the first thing it does all of the
peers is connected to a send me the
block for the route we call this a one
so Tenzer won't request all of these
connected peers if nobody has it then it
asks the DHT hey who has this thing
who's the provider for this block once
someone responds or a few peers responds
we add them into something called a
session so typically will ask typically
the same peers are going to have related
blocks like a whole bunch of peers will
have the same file so a session just
gives us a way of keeping all the peers
together so that we can make any
subsequent requests to the same group of
peers so we have this concept of one
lists so in this example um peer a once
CID one and CID two from peer B and P OB
keeps a local copy of which see IDs that
PR a one so which blocks if PR a once
once PR B receives the block for cid one
let's say well maybe it's in its block
store already it sends that block to PR
a and it removes the one from its local
copy of purées one list so these one
lists are maintained for as long as the
peers are connected and then they
discarded
have a council message so in a similar
example let's say PRA is sent a one for
peer for CID one and two to Pierre B and
then PRA receives the block from someone
else then PRA tells POV hey I don't need
this anymore
and Pierre B can remove it from purées
want list so how do we know which the
IDS to send to which peers basically
peers in the session are ordered by
latency and when we get a request for a
bunch of blocks we split that requests
across the peers so in this example we
have a split factor of three meaning
those three rows here and CID zero three
six and nine will each be sent to peers
a D and G CID is 1 4 7 to be e and H and
CID is 2 5 and 8 to C and F so as you
can see multiple so single one is sent
to multiple peers so in that case we may
get the same block back for multiple
peers we call that a duplicate so if we
start getting a lot of duplicates then
we change the split factor so in this
case we change this book factor to 5
there are 5 rows and as you can see each
CID is now being sent to less peers so
CID 0 gets sent to a and F 5 get sent to
a and F and so on if we find that we're
missing box we're getting timeouts or
we're only getting uniques back a lot of
the time then we change the split factor
again so as to send each one two more
years this is how it currently works
finally
concept of rate-limiting so each session
as a rate limit of 32 live once and a
live one is just I want that we've sent
out saying hey we want this thing but we
haven't heard back from anyone yet
saying that they have it so in this
example we have 8 pending so let's say
we get a request for 8 blocks from ipfs
so we send out we max out the live one
queue in this case a lot freeze for the
purposes of this example our live 1
queue has a limit of 4 so we put 4
blocks into the live 1 queue we send
them out to the peers we get 2 blocks
back in this case CID 0 & 2
so they're now complete and so we now
have space to put two move two blocks
from the pending queue into the Live
queue so what are some of the issues
with the current bit swap implementation
that we want to address one is that
piers are ordered by latency when in
fact what we really want is to order
appears by throughput so as to maximize
bandwidth also a request is split across
peers but oftentimes we'll only get a
request for one or two blocks at a time
and this can also happen when as in the
previous slide oops as in the previous
slide there's only two slots available
here so it doesn't really make sense to
split such a small number of once across
our peers it only really make sense to
do sort of request splitting across when
we have a little of once so what we want
to move towards is what we call
streaming once meaning treat the ones
individually instead of as a group and
then select peers on our probability
stick basis another issue we have is
that once a rate limited per session and
really we don't want to overload peers
so we want to rate limit them per peer
so for example on the gateways we have
you know thousands of sessions finally
it's a little bit inefficient to
be getting duplicate blocks back when
we're doing discovery so we want to have
a way of figuring out where stuff is
without having to get blocks and we also
want to try to keep ears busy meaning
always make sure the peers have stuff to
send to us so that they keep the pipe
full so up to optimize bandwidth usage
so Stephen and I kind of got together
and we came up with a few protocol
extensions um so this is sort of a bit
of a work in progress at the moment but
I'll tell you what our current thinking
is so we have this we've added a new
message called a have message so
basically this allows a peer to say I
have this block but not to actually send
the block so this is particularly useful
for discovery so in our example over
here peer a whoops say P race ends I
want have message saying like hey do you
have this CID it appears BC and D here B
says yep I've got it so P ra says okay
now give me the block I mean up here C
and D just say oh I have this block as
well and then Pierre B actually sends
the block back in the case where the
block is small enough as an optimization
we can skip the half part so pob will
just immediately send back the block so
the second product
extension we added was the don't have
message so currently in order to know
whether a peer has a block we just have
to ask for the block and then either get
the block back or wait for a timeout the
don't have message allows the Peter
immediately signal us and say actually I
don't have this so this allows us to
very quickly determine the distribution
of blocks that we want so in this
example this slides a little complicated
but I'll try to explain it so let's
imagine that we want to requests eight
blocks so--but ipfs is ice bit smart for
eight blocks good swap knows about three
piers B C and D so it asks you B for the
first three blocks and it says for the
rest of them hey just let me know if you
have this then it asks pier C for blocks
four five and six and for the rest of
them says just let me know if you have
it
and finally for PID it asks for the last
two blocks and says let me know if you
have the others so then all the peers
respond and they say I have this block I
have this block I don't have this block
I do have this one but I'm not saying it
yet and so it just kind of allows us to
efficiently get blocks and also figure
out where the blocks are if the peer
we're expecting to have it didn't have
it so clear does anyone have any
questions okay
one more extension
was to have an outstanding queue size so
this is when let's say I have requested
a bunch of blocks from a PA the PA is
sending me back a response but not all
of the blocks can fit into each message
so a bit swap will actually round-robin
its responses for Fanus so it won't just
send all the responses to the first guy
well the next response is the second guy
it'll send a few responses to each of
the peers that is requesting and it'll
kind of round-robin until it's finished
so in this example we've requested eight
blocks from up here
the peer is able to fit three blocks
into the message the response message
which is of a limited size and there are
five blocks left over so it just tells
it hey there's five more coming so we
kind of monitor this queue size this
outstanding queue size and if it gets
too high then we know we can back off so
this allows us to kind of like request a
whole bunch of stuff but not to overload
the peer so those are the
extensions now I'm going to talk about
some changes to the actual
implementation so as I mentioned before
we can ask for a block and at the same
time as we're asking for the block we
can also ask if the other peers have the
block just in case this beer doesn't so
let's say that in this case pob respond
and said actually i don't have this
block but pra says that it does have the
block we can just directly go and ask
the array for it so given that we have
given that we want a block how do we
choose which peer that we're going to
send that one to so as I said this is
kind of an open question at the moment
but our current thinking is we're going
to prioritize beers that have told us
they have the block we're going to
prioritize P is that we never provide a
that block we're going to ignore peers
that say they don't have the block and
then given all those things are equal
then next we order the peers by they
have don't have ratio meaning if a peer
has already told us that it has a bunch
of the blocks that we were looking for
before and it's pretty likely to have
the next block we're looking for and
finally we select peers with the
shortest queue so each peer has a kind
of queue of blocks that we're sending to
it or a request I should say and so kind
of tying this all together if we have a
whole bunch of once and we have a whole
bunch of peers how do we say which one
to send to which p.m. so in our example
here we have peers a and B we have once
the blocks 0 1 2 & 3 so peer a has told
us that whoops sorry peer a has told us
that it has CID 3 PA B is said it has
CID 2 and it does not have CID 0 and we
don't have any information yet about who
may or have may have one have not CID 1
so we figure out what's the maximum
potential that we can gain for each peer
for each block so here we're kind of
saying we're assigning a value saying
that if we send CID 3 to PA
we're expecting with the probability of
0.8 that pra is going to give it back to
us because it said it had it so in this
case two peers have said that they have
these two blocks so these have the
highest potential gain 0.8 and then in
order to choose between those two we
simply do it by the order in which those
blocks are requested so CID two is
requested before CID three so we end up
sending CID two sending a one for CID
two to peer B so that's pretty much it
as I said we're kind of working through
a few design questions this involves me
I've written a proof of concepts and I'm
doing a bunch of benchmarking and
working with Stephen on that and there's
a couple of open design questions that
people might be interested in discussing
in our issues board so one design
question is given that peers are telling
us how backed up they are how much stuff
they have to send to us how exactly do
we vary the size of or the amount of
stuff the amount of ones that we're
sending to them that's an open question
at the moment and secondly how do we
vary the number of want blocks versus
one halves so here should we send a one
block to both peer NBC and then it won't
have to be a see should we just send a
one block to pRb and sure we said one
has to be a and see what if we have you
know 50 peers in the session do we send
a 1/2 to all of them it's kind of like
an open problem that we're working
through and that brings me to the end so
see Aaron have any questions
how is the benchmarking looking have you
got any interesting stats I so it looks
good I don't want to say too much more
because I haven't implemented all parts
of it so I don't want to sort of state
any solid facts before before we've done
a full implementation because I don't
want to say like it's a lot better and
then we discover that actually once
we've completed the implementation
there's a couple of things that make it
a little bit slower but in summary for
particular use cases it works a lot
better for example when the blocks it is
first across a lot of different piers
this protocol all makes it a lot faster
to retrieve all the blocks and we get a
lot less overhead because we can quickly
discover where they are in certain cases
it doesn't actually make that much
difference in a certain cases it does it
depends on the use case
other questions hello Janice so you
mentioned that you changed them right
now you're picking a pair based on the
latency that was changed to through a
good right so what was the I mean have
you thought of having both of them and
assigning some weight because latency is
also important I mean it's difficult to
say which one is more important
basically yeah
so I think basically what we want to
maximize for is how much stuff we're
getting back from IPA and so what we're
kind of trying to do is always keep the
pipe full so so we're sort of maximizing
for throughput rather than for bandwidth
or for latency so it's sort of it's
quite a tricky problem to measure
exactly what bandwidth is and even
measuring latency is actually quite
tricky a lot of the time because it
varies so what we're trying to do is
simulate or we're trying to react as
well as possible to existing network
conditions which can vary over time so
if we sort of keep the pipe full then we
can we can do that without really having
to do too much calculation or having to
think about it too much it sort of
happens organically that sort of makes
sense Stephen you want to experiment
basically we're not optimising thirdly
yeah but these just for specific period
it's more that like we are optimizing
for her own throughput and then like
toggling the only things we can toggle
instead of like in the past what we're
trying to do is like it appears it
responded the fastest but that didn't
actually mean that they were the fastest
overall or like okay at the beginning
that could appear to be returning blocks
really quickly but then like they could
bog down because they have a larger
person like that so basically we're just
like we're trying to not model the
network as much as possible and it said
just like optimized for what we want and
then tweak the variables we have to try
to like compromise that that make sense
yeah yeah it does make sense it depends
a little bit on what these them the kind
of application that runs awesomely
behind so I mean sometimes you have a
big file and this makes perfect sense
but then if you're delivering video or
something then the opposite might be I
mean it's a classic problem of mice an
idea blows and it depends on what we're
looking for
like it's a giver dog resolving an
initial block that's like a one-off then
we went after my agency often like we
usually go into a random block you don't
even know has it's like I yeah so
basically here we're just literally
trying to like call it max up I just
like trying to find a way to keep over
up here as busy sending us data so this
will give me the maximum but it's not
yeah you're right like if you had usage
but you open a session and then like you
just like ask for block and maybe weight
of it you ask for the block think wait a
bit ask for the block a bit but then you
really want like the peer that returns
the block the fastest this would be
something we would have to like measure
internally in the link we have to
balance this basically yeah if the tech
like we have whereas with a lot of
things optimized for it but we're asking
for like one thing at a time
optimized for latency yeah exactly
exactly so it could be something more
sophisticated because not normally
there's if goes to find one size fits
all okay to your point Thanks any other
questions
oh I guess that's a no wraps up weekly
cool and it's very no more questions
thank you very much for joining us all
this has been yes we can call them on
September 2019 I hope nation grain Ducks
been amazing thank you very much see you
next week